Endüstri Mühendisliği - Staj
GUIDELINES FOR INTERNSHIP
Each student in Industrial Engineering Department at Bahçeşehir University is required to complete two mandatory interships throughout
his/her four years of college.
The goal of summer internships is to familiarize the student with the industry by observing theory and applications of Industrial Engineering in work place, thus gain experience with many aspects of the profession.
Following are the information/steps that have to be followed:
There are two internships that need to be completed
:
Internship in manufacturing industry (INE 3993) –
Has to be completed in a manufacturing industry. Students are expected to observe the different phases of manufacturing processes, and be able to answer related questions.
Internship in service industry (INE 4993) –
Has to be completed in service industry. Students are expected to observe many aspects of service industry, and be able to answer related questions.
Normally, internships should be completed during summer after the finals are over.
Senior (4
th
year) students only, who are about to graduate, have the option of doing their internship throughout the semester as long as they are registered for two days of classes only. They can take the remaining 3 days to do their internship. In this case they have to inform the internship coordinator by presenting their class registration documentation for the semester. Students other than the senior ones may not do their internship throughout the semester. All students have to confirm the dates with the internship coordinator.
Students are expected to find an appropriate company for the internships through school (coop office) or through their personal network. A candidate company has to provide in depth application of industrial engineering tools and methods. There should be at least 4 to 5 industrial engineers working for the company.  The two internships have to be completed at separate companies.
As soon as a student finds a company he/she considers for internship, the internship coordinator (Dr.Ayşe Kavuşturucu:
[email protected]
) needs to be informed. The internship coordinator has to approve of the company before the student may proceed with the procedure.
Duration and timing of internships
: Students may start their first internship only after completing the 4
th
semester of college. Each internship should be completed in at least 20 business days (excluding the holidays). Depending on the company policy, Saturdays could also be counted towards 20 business days.
Following is a list of documentation that need to be filled out by each student prior to beginning of the internship, once the company is approved by the internship coordinator:
Click
for Internship Approval Form in English (Staj Onay Belgesi için
tıklayınz.
)
Click
for Internship Application Form in English (Staj Başvuru Belgesi için
tıklayınız.
)
Click
for Mandatory Internship Form in English (Staj Zorunluluk Belgesi için
tıklayınız.
)
Click
for Internship Evaluation Form in English (Staj Sicil Belgesi için
tıklayınız.
)
Click
for Forms for Insurance in Turkish (Ek-1, Ek-2, Ek-3, Ek-4 için
tıklayınız.
)
Following is the order in which the above forms should be filled out and submitted to the internship coordinator:
Internship Approval Form (Staj Onay Belgesi) needs to be filled out, signed and stamped **** by the company, and the student. It needs to be submitted online to the internship coordinator before the other forms can be filled out.
Internship Application Form (Staj Başvuru Belgesi) needs to be filled out, signed and stamped by the company. It needs to be submitted online to the internship coordinator before the internship begins.
Mandatory Internship Form (Staj Zorunluluk Belgesi) needs to be filled out by the student and signed online by the internship coordinator before the internship begins.
Internship Evaluation Form (Staj Sicil Belgesi) needs to be filled, signed and stamped by the company once the student finishes the internship. It needs to be submitted along with the internship report to MS Teams at a designated date by the internship coordinator.
Forms for Insurance (Ek-1, Ek-2, Ek-3, Ek-4) need to be filled out and submitted online to human resources department (
[email protected]
) of Bahçeşehir University. If the student does not receive insurance from Bahçeşehir University, he/she has to provide other means of receiving insurance (from the company, family, etc.). In both cases an approved insurance form has to be submitted to the internship coordinator.
Important:
The internship may not begin unless Internship Approval Form, Internship Application Form and Insurance Forms have been submitted to the internship coordinator.
During and/or after the completion of the internships, internship reports have to be filled out.
For INE 3993,
MANUFACTURING INTERNSHIP REPORT TEMPLATE
(Üretim Staj Raporu) has to be filled out.
For INE 4993,
SERVICE INDUSTRY INTERNSHIP REPORT TEMPLATE
(Hizmet Staj Raporu) has to be filled out.
WARNING: Check out the contents of the report templates before and during your internships because they contain questions that you can only get answered during your internships. You may not have access to some of the relevant information after completing your internship.
Students need to take the appropriate (INE 3993 or INE 4993) internship course within the two semesters following the completion of the internship.
An internship is considered valid for two semesters only. These courses may also be taken during summer school.
Once the internship report is ready to be submitted by the student, it should be uploaded to MS Teams along with the Internship Evaluation Form following the announcement made by the internship coordinator at the beginning of the semester.
Online internships will not be accepted.
An internship may also be completed in a foreign country under the conditions listed above.