Internship
Molecular Biology and Genetics Department Practical Training Internship Guidelines
Each year Bahçeşehir engineering and natural sciences students take part in more than 100 internships at organizations nationwide. While networking with role models and potential employers, students get to see how the scientific process is applied, and how ideas turn into design and can then deployed. These internships provide opportunities for hands- on, practical experience that will help students make choices early on in their academic training that will shape their careers.
To fulfill the curriculum for the Department of Molecular Biology & Genetics, students must successfully complete one MUST (obligatory) internship training course featuring
''HOSPITAL or RESEARCH LAB PRACTICE''
The training should be completed between years 2 and 4 of the student’s program; however, under special circumstances, the internship may be performed following the first year.
The training must be completed at an institution other than Bahçeşehir University, which must be approved by the Department Head prior to the start of the internship. It may be completed at a company, hospital or genetic testing laboratory, research institute, or research lab at another accredited university. The training may be completed in Turkey or abroad if the other conditions of the training can be met.
The internship must have a scientific or engineering focus and include training in at least one of the following skills: hands-on laboratory techniques; bioinformatics and data processing or data analysis; biomedical or biotechnology product development and design.
The internship must be performed as a continuous period of at least 20 working days. Internships cannot be split into shorter durations.
Students are responsible for finding a suitable institution for their training course, contacting the institution to set up the conditions of the internship, and completing the documents necessary to perform the training. The Department can provide a list of potential internship candidates; however, Bahçeşehir University is not responsible for supplying internship opportunities.
To receive credit for the internship training:
PRIOR TO THE START OF THE INTERNSHIP
Fill out the template PETITION FOR TRAINING INTERNSHIP
This document must be signed by the appropriate authority (e.g Head of the Institute) at your chosen institution.
The original SIGNED AND STAMPED PETITION must be submitted to the Bahçeşehir University Personnel Department.
A copy of the SIGNED PETITION should be submitted to the Department Head  and you must keep a copy for your records.
DURING THE INTERNSHIP
Each student must prepare an INTERNSHIP REPORT summarizing his/her daily work and the experience gained during the internship. This should include a description of training and duties performed.
Template internship reports are available. The report must show the experience and what was learned during the practice period (day-by-day).
The internship report must be written in English. At least one page per week of the report must be signed by your internship supervisor.
AT THE END OF THE INTERNSHIP
In addition to the INTERNSHIP REPORT, the INTERNSHIP EVALUATION FORM, completed by your internship supervisor and signed by the appropriate authority at the institution, must be submitted in a SIGNED, SEALED ENVELOPE to the Head of the Department within a month of completing of the internship.
The report will be evaluated to determine whether the requirements of the internship have been satisfactorily completed.