Erasmus+ Outgoing Traineeship

Academic Coordinators
Required Documents
Faculty of Medicine
Brief Information About Erasmus+ Traineeship Program
The student must have completed the 1st semester of the 1st year of their respective studies in order to apply for the program.
In order to participate the program, Applicants must be an active and full-time; associate degree, undergraduate, or graduate student,
Associate degree and undergraduate students
must have a minimum cumulative academic
GPA of 2.20/4.00
, while
graduate students
must have a minimum
GPA of 2.50/4.00.
The Erasmus+ score is calculated based on 50% of the GPA and 50% of the English proficiency exam score.
Erasmus+ traineeship mobility must be a minimum of
2 months and a maximum of 12 months.
Movements under
60 days
will not be considered valid.
It is the responsibility of the students to find the company or institution where the internship will take place.
Students can do their traineeships in companies, universities, and more.
The internship placements and positions must be related to the department in which the students are studying.
It is not appropriate for them to do internship mobility in a position other than the department they are studying.
It is obligatory for students to discuss the approval of their internship places with the Erasmus+ coordinators of their own faculties and get approval before applying to the program.
Before applying,
graduate students
should contact their institute and consult on whether they will be eligible to participate in the program. Our office is not responsible for the situations of students who apply but are rejected by the faculty later in the process.
While students are responsible for arranging their own accommodation in the host country, the company or institution they will work with may also offer support.
Students who wish to benefit from Erasmus+ traineeship mobility should be informed about the full-time internship working hours in the countries they plan to go to. They are expected to adapt to these working hours and specify them accurately in the ‘Working Hours’ section when completing the Learning Agreement at a later stage.
Students who have participated in Erasmus+ mobility activities during their standard education period may not exceed a total duration of 12 months of mobility. For example, if a student has previously taken part in Erasmus+ learning mobility and the total duration reaches 12 months, they are not eligible for further mobility. If a student has participated in Erasmus+ learning mobility for more than 9 months, their traineeship mobility application, which is expected to last 4.5 months, will not be approved.
For each academic year, there is a specified period during which traineeship mobility can be carried out. Provided that it falls within this specified period, traineeship mobility may also take place during the summer term. Students are kindly requested to follow current application calls and announcements.
Students who wish to complete an internship after graduation must have applied and been accepted during the application period while they were active students. The traineeship mobility dates specified in the application announcement are also valid for students who will carry out their traineeship mobility after graduation.
Double major students
can only use one of the majors to apply for Erasmus+ mobility during the application period.